---
title: "Namespace"
description: "What is Celestia Namespace and how to view it on Celenium"
icon: "namespace"
---

# Namespace

In the Celestia Network, a Namespace refers to a unique identifier that organizes data within a Namespaced Merkle Tree (NMT). This binary Merkle tree structure tags each node with the minimum and maximum namespace of its children, ordering leaves by the namespace identifiers of their messages. This organization allows for efficient Merkle proofs of inclusion, proving all elements of a specific namespace are included, facilitating data verification for rollups. Namespaces are designed to be permissionless, enabling anyone to create and use them. Additionally, [system namespaces](https://github.com/celestiaorg/celestia-specs/blob/master/src/specs/consensus.md#reserved-namespace-ids) are reserved for network-specific functions, ensuring secure and organized data management within the Celestia Network.


## Namespaces on Celenium

To interact with namespaces on Celenium, you can follow these methods:

1. **View the latest and most active namespaces** on the main page of the explorer to get an overview of current namespace activity.
2. Access the **"[Namespaces](https://celenium.io/namespaces)" page** to see a comprehensive list of all created namespaces, providing a broader perspective on the network's data organization.
3. For in-depth information about a specific namespace, visit its **[dedicated page](https://celenium.io/namespace/00000000000000000000000000000000000000000808080808080808)**, which offers detailed insights and data related to that namespace.
4. Don't forget to use the **Bookmark feature** to save your favorite namespaces or those you wish to track, making it easier to monitor their activity directly from your machine.

## Links

- [adr-014-versioned-namespaces](https://github.com/celestiaorg/celestia-app/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-014-versioned-namespaces.md)
- [adr-015-namespace-id-size](https://github.com/celestiaorg/celestia-app/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-015-namespace-id-size.md)
