---
title: "Features"
description: "Overview of Celenium features"
icon: "star"
---

# Features

Celenium is an advanced blockchain explorer tailored for the Celestia Network, offering a suite of features for users to preview blobs, validate rollups, view comprehensive statistics, and register their own rollups.

- **Search Functionality**: Effortlessly navigate through the Celestia Network using Celenium's search capabilities. Look up namespaces by their id, transaction hash or block number, and easily find associated data. You can also search for registered rollups to get the information you need quickly.

- **Blob Explorer**: Engage with the details of blobs by exploring their contents. Celenium allows you to decode blobs in various formats, offering a deeper understanding of their significance and structure within the blockchain.

- **Advanced Analytics**: Access a wealth of insights into the Celestia Network's operations. Celenium's analytics dashboards presents an array of charts and metrics, giving you a detailed view of rollups, blobs, blocks, and transactions across the network.

- **Rollup Registration and Management**: Celenium streamlines the process of rollup registration, making it simple for users to register their own rollups.

- **Developer-Friendly Command Center**: With developers in mind, Celenium includes a command center designed to facilitate interaction with the blockchain. This feature enhances the user experience for developers, providing tools and commands that are essential for development and testing.

- **Open Source**: As an open-source project, Celenium is accessible to everyone and encourages community contributions. Whether you're looking to add new features, fix bugs, or improve the platform, the project welcomes your involvement.

Celenium is not just a blockchain explorer; it's a comprehensive toolkit for anyone involved with the Celestia Network, from casual users to developers and researchers. Its extensive features and user-friendly design make it an indispensable resource for engaging with and contributing to the Celestia ecosystem.
