---
title: "Modular Blockchains"
description: "Test"
---

# Modular Blockchains

Blockchains instantiate replicated state machines: the nodes in a permissionless distributed network apply an ordered sequence of deterministic transactions to an initial state resulting in a common final state.

In other words, this means that nodes in a network all follow the same set of rules (i.e., an ordered sequence of transactions) to go from a starting point (i.e., an initial state) to an ending point (i.e., a common final state). This process ensures that all nodes in the network agree on the final state of the blockchain, even though they operate independently.

This means blockchains require the following four functions:

-   **Execution** entails executing transactions that update the state correctly. Thus, execution must ensure that only valid transactions are executed, i.e., transactions that result in valid state machine transitions.
-   **Settlement** entails an environment for execution layers to verify proofs, resolve fraud disputes, and bridge between other execution layers.
-   **Consensus** entails agreeing on the order of the transactions.
-   **Data Availability** (DA) entails making the transaction data available. Note that execution, settlement, and consensus require DA.

Traditional blockchains, i.e. monolithic blockchains, implement all four functions together in a single base consensus layer. The problem with monolithic blockchains is that the consensus layer must perform a lot of different tasks and it cannot be optimized for only one of these functions. As a result, the monolithic paradigm limits the throughput of the system.
